README.md, before:

# Sample Digital Humanities Resources
Highly selected DH resources for Matt Sergi's class  
**Last Update: 2019-03-06**

### Anatomy of a REED Record
-	Go to the REED Online website https://ereed.library.utoronto.ca/
- Select the “How to” tab
- Select “Anatomy of a REED Record”
- Read also the short “Introduction to the Research Process” guide


### Some Digital Humanities Resources for Your Exploration
Compiled by Kathy Chung, 5 March 2019

#### Samples of Digital Humanities Projects and Programs
- REED Online https://ereed.library.utoronto.ca/
- Patrons and Performers https://reed.library.utoronto.ca/
- OED Online (something I use almost every day) http://www.oed.com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/
- Oxford Dictionary of National Biography ODNB http://www.oxforddnb.com/
- History of Parliament Online HPO http://www.historyofparliamentonline.org/
- Internet Archive https://archive.org/index.php
- Dictionary of Old English, DOE at U of T https://www.doe.utoronto.ca/pages/index.html
- Archival websites (museums, art galleries, cultural histories of many sorts)
- Dollar Street, Gapminder foundation https://www.gapminder.org/dollar-street/matrix –- photographs as data for social economic research, breaking down misconceptions and stereotypes
- Internet Shakespeare Editions http://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/
- Digital Dubliners https://digitaldubliners.com/  -- a student project, digital edition of James Joyce's Dubliners; Boston College, Prof. Joseph Nugent
- Six Degrees of Francis Bacon http://www.sixdegreesoffrancisbacon.com/
- Livingston Online http://www.livingstoneonline.org/  -- “a digital museum and library [which] explores the legacy of Victorian traveler David Livingston”
- Van Gogh Letters http://vangoghletters.org/vg/
- Open Doomsday http://opendomesday.org/
- Emily Dickinson Archives http://www.edickinson.org/
- Shelley-Godwin Archives http://shelleygodwinarchive.org/
- Visualizing Venice http://www.visualizingvenice.org/visu/
- IIIF Showcase https://showcase.iiif.io/
- Layers of London https://layersoflondon.blogs.sas.ac.uk/
- Visualizing Climate Change https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/capital-weather-gang/wp/2018/08/28/climate-change-switchboard-shows-every-country-on-the-planet-turning-red-hot/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.e8f0448258c5 article about visualization by Antti Lipponen; https://twitter.com/anttilip/status/1033342041474969601  Antti Lipponen’s twitter message showing his visualization and commentary
 

#### Sample Academic Programmes and Projects
- Digital Humanities Undergrad minor, UT https://wdw.utoronto.ca/digital-humanities
- DH @ U Guelph https://www.uoguelph.ca/arts/dhguelph
- DH @ UVic https://www.uvic.ca/humanities/english/research/researchclusters/digital-humanities/index.php
- Digital Humanities Summer Institute (DHSI), UVic http://www.dhsi.org/courses.php
- Centre for Digital Humanities, Ryerson U https://www.ryerson.ca/cdh/about/
- Digital Humanities Network, Jackman Humanities Institute, UT http://dhn.utoronto.ca/
- Digital Projects @ McGill https://www.mcgill.ca/digital-humanities/projects
- U Berkely http://digitalhumanities.berkeley.edu/projects
- Stanford U https://digitalhumanities.stanford.edu/projects
- NYU Libraries, Digital Collections and Digital Humanities Projects (open access) https://guides.nyu.edu/c.php?g=276589&p=1848819
- Cornell Library Guide: Grants & Fellowships in the Humanities & Social Sciences: Digital Humanities Projects  http://guides.library.cornell.edu/c.php?g=31362&p=809414
- “A Survey of Digital Humanities Programs” The Journal of Interactive Technology & Pedagogy. 24 May 2017 https://jitp.commons.gc.cuny.edu/a-survey-of-digital-humanities-programs/   - quality of the journal unknown
- There are lots of other international DH “summer schools”, “workshops”, etc.


#### Sample Organizations, Topics, Tools, Lessons
- Text Encoding Initiative https://tei-c.org/
- Music Encoding Initiative https://music-encoding.org/
- “GIS,” (Geographic Information System) National Geographic Society https://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/geographic-information-system-gis/
- Voyant Tools https://voyant-tools.org/  -- online text analysis tool (Canadian)
- U of T Map and Data Library homepage https://mdl.library.utoronto.ca/ -- has workshops and tutorials on mapping, data visualization, etc.
- Programming Historian https://programminghistorian.org/ -- well respected learning website for digital humanities topics
- W3School Tutorials https://www.w3schools.com/ -- one of many learning sites
- Story Maps, Ersi http://storymaps.arcgis.com/en/ -- telling stories with maps
- Omeka.net Showcase https://info.omeka.net/showcase/ -- create your own "exhibit" website
- Search online: “Intro to GIS”
- Search online: “Intro to text mining”
- etc.

Commit message:

added digital tools for mss studies

README.md, after:

# Sample Digital Humanities Resources
Highly selected DH resources for Matt Sergi's class  
**Last Update: 2019-03-06**

### Anatomy of a REED Record
-	Go to the REED Online website https://ereed.library.utoronto.ca/
- Select the “How to” tab
- Select “Anatomy of a REED Record”
- Read also the short “Introduction to the Research Process” guide


### Some Digital Humanities Resources for Your Exploration
Compiled by Kathy Chung, 6 March 2019

#### Samples of Digital Humanities Projects and Programs
- REED Online https://ereed.library.utoronto.ca/
- Patrons and Performers https://reed.library.utoronto.ca/
- Dictionary of Old English, DOE at U of T https://www.doe.utoronto.ca/pages/index.html
- Digital Tools for Manuscript Studies, UTM https://digitaltoolsmss.library.utoronto.ca/
- OED Online (something I use almost every day) http://www.oed.com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/
- Oxford Dictionary of National Biography ODNB http://www.oxforddnb.com/
- History of Parliament Online HPO http://www.historyofparliamentonline.org/
- Internet Archive https://archive.org/index.php
- Archival websites (museums, art galleries, cultural histories of many sorts)
- Dollar Street, Gapminder foundation https://www.gapminder.org/dollar-street/matrix –- photographs as data for social economic research, breaking down misconceptions and stereotypes
- Internet Shakespeare Editions http://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/
- Digital Dubliners https://digitaldubliners.com/  -- a student project, digital edition of James Joyce's Dubliners; Boston College, Prof. Joseph Nugent
- Six Degrees of Francis Bacon http://www.sixdegreesoffrancisbacon.com/
- Livingston Online http://www.livingstoneonline.org/  -- “a digital museum and library [which] explores the legacy of Victorian traveler David Livingston”
- Van Gogh Letters http://vangoghletters.org/vg/
- Open Doomsday http://opendomesday.org/
- Emily Dickinson Archives http://www.edickinson.org/
- Shelley-Godwin Archives http://shelleygodwinarchive.org/
- Visualizing Venice http://www.visualizingvenice.org/visu/
- IIIF Showcase https://showcase.iiif.io/
- Layers of London https://layersoflondon.blogs.sas.ac.uk/
- Visualizing Climate Change https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/capital-weather-gang/wp/2018/08/28/climate-change-switchboard-shows-every-country-on-the-planet-turning-red-hot/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.e8f0448258c5 article about visualization by Antti Lipponen; https://twitter.com/anttilip/status/1033342041474969601  Antti Lipponen’s twitter message showing his visualization and commentary
 

#### Sample Academic Programmes and Projects
- Digital Humanities Undergrad minor, UT https://wdw.utoronto.ca/digital-humanities
- DH @ U Guelph https://www.uoguelph.ca/arts/dhguelph
- DH @ UVic https://www.uvic.ca/humanities/english/research/researchclusters/digital-humanities/index.php
- Digital Humanities Summer Institute (DHSI), UVic http://www.dhsi.org/courses.php
- Centre for Digital Humanities, Ryerson U https://www.ryerson.ca/cdh/about/
- Digital Humanities Network, Jackman Humanities Institute, UT http://dhn.utoronto.ca/
- Digital Projects @ McGill https://www.mcgill.ca/digital-humanities/projects
- U Berkely http://digitalhumanities.berkeley.edu/projects
- Stanford U https://digitalhumanities.stanford.edu/projects
- NYU Libraries, Digital Collections and Digital Humanities Projects (open access) https://guides.nyu.edu/c.php?g=276589&p=1848819
- Cornell Library Guide: Grants & Fellowships in the Humanities & Social Sciences: Digital Humanities Projects  http://guides.library.cornell.edu/c.php?g=31362&p=809414
- “A Survey of Digital Humanities Programs” The Journal of Interactive Technology & Pedagogy. 24 May 2017 https://jitp.commons.gc.cuny.edu/a-survey-of-digital-humanities-programs/   - quality of the journal unknown
- There are lots of other international DH “summer schools”, “workshops”, etc.


#### Sample Organizations, Topics, Tools, Lessons
- Text Encoding Initiative https://tei-c.org/
- Music Encoding Initiative https://music-encoding.org/
- “GIS,” (Geographic Information System) National Geographic Society https://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/geographic-information-system-gis/
- Voyant Tools https://voyant-tools.org/  -- online text analysis tool (Canadian)
- U of T Map and Data Library homepage https://mdl.library.utoronto.ca/ -- has workshops and tutorials on mapping, data visualization, etc.
- Programming Historian https://programminghistorian.org/ -- well respected learning website for digital humanities topics
- W3School Tutorials https://www.w3schools.com/ -- one of many learning sites
- Story Maps, Ersi http://storymaps.arcgis.com/en/ -- telling stories with maps
- Omeka.net Showcase https://info.omeka.net/showcase/ -- create your own "exhibit" website
- Search online: “Intro to GIS”
- Search online: “Intro to text mining”
- etc.
